Ukraine's army said on Thursday it was worried about the "growing threat" of a new Russian offensive from Belarus.

"The aggressive rhetoric of the military and political leaders of Russia and Belarus is intensifying," Oleksiy Gromov, a Ukrainian military official, told reporters."The threat of a resumption of the offensive on the northern front by the Russian armed forces is growing."

Moscow and Minsk launched a joint military exercise this week, with thousands of Russian troops gathering in Belarus over the past few days.

Belarus, which is Ukraine's northern neighbour, served as a rear base for Russian forces during the first wave of their invasion in February. A joint training exercise preceded this.


Gromov suggested this time, the offensive could be launched from the west of Belarus "to cut off the main supply routes for foreign arms and military equipment" which are arriving from western Ukraine, particularly through Poland.

Earlier in the day, the Belarusian intelligence services (KGB) claimed that Ukrainian "intelligence activities" had increased, alongside "daily attempts to violate Belarusian airspace".

"Unfortunately, the situation is developing very seriously in our southern direction," said the head of the Belarusian KGB, Ivan Tertel, without giving further details.

On Monday, Belarus announced that “up to 9,000 Russian soldiers” and around 170 tanks would be deployed in Belarus, a staunch Russian ally.

Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko said the pair were intending to create a new military group, which is supposed to defend the borders of Belarus against Ukrainian attacks.

He launched the new force last week following a series of Russian military setbacks in Ukraine.

Lukashenko claimed at the time Poland, Lithuania and Ukraine were preparing "terrorist" attacks and an "uprising" in Belarus, raising fears of direct intervention by Minsk in the conflict in Ukraine.

However, Belarus has assured that the joint military force with Russia is purely "defensive".